Development of D-EVIL strategy in ensemble generation in NEMOVAR

Ensemble-Variational Integrated Localized (EVIL) DA framework (Auligné et al, 2016) provides an convenient way of generating the posterior ensemble from the prior ensemble based on the information from the variational system only. The Deterministic EVIL performs an update of the ensemble mimicking the square-root filtering strategy. NEMOVAR is a hybrid variational DA system for the NEMO model. 

In this study, we implemented D-EVIL in NEMOVAR. NEMOVAR features two conjugate gradient based B-preconditioned minimization algorithms which make the integration of Deterministic EVIL strategy convenient. Firstly, the B-preconditioned algorithm (or the reduced B-preconditioned in dual form)  allows a compatible transformation with the localized ensemble- based B. Secondly, the Ritz paris of the Hessian used to constituting the transformation matrix are a direct byproduct of the conjugate gradient methods used in the minimization. Therefore no extra computation is needed to extract the eigen-spectrum of Hessian. Besides, more iterations in inner loop introduce more accurate Ritz paris. Thus one primary goal is to study the sensitivities of the posterior ensemble's quality with respect to the iteration numbers in the inner loop in an operational context. Here we focused on the evaluation of the behavior of D-EVIL in terms of different background error covariance matrix formulation strategies. In NEMOVAR, the means of injection of ensemble information into the matrix B is quite versatile. One can employ the ensemble to estimate the variance and the length scale tensor for the correlation model or the localization operator as well as the ensemble-based flow-dependent B. Any of the approach has a direct impact on the Hessian.