###Why no changement in the later cycles of the analysis state compare to the forecast state?

In general this is due to the LA ensemble collpase. That is to say there is not enough ensemble spread induced by either the ensemble initial state or parameters.

We need to compare the different Xensa generated by LC and LA.

In LA, the magnitude is actually enough with the Hessian transformation. The Xensa member shows very noisy on height. Such noise is close to the form of Gaussian which is likely to be cancelled by the model. 

But the xensa yielded by LA still shows good correction of xensf. This is logical because xensa LA is based on xa with resampled noise.

In LC, in the first cycle, the xensf is very noisy resulting from large sigma showing longer spatial correlated errors. However, there errors have been corrected by observations during the assimilation process. Finally, we have a much better Xensa.

The following may not be the reason.(The reason is that the transformation matrix T is too small, this is due to the Hessian is too big of the cost function. The Hessian is calculated based on the ensemble anomaly matrix and the inverse observation covariance matrix, so when we use an initian ensemble sampling from parameters.)

###Why the trajectory diverges from true state when imposing less err_sigma, for example 1e2 against 1e3?

The reason is that when we impose more err_sigma, we have stronger ensemble spread, larger Ab, followed by larger Hessian make the ensemble transformation matrix less important. It fundamentaly reduce the norm of Aa' making the new analysis ensemble.

